
Cautious investigators will hesitate
 to challenge the common belief that
 Robert Blake was killed by lightnin
g, or by some profound nervous shock
 derived from an electrical discharg
e. It is true that the window he fac
ed was unbroken, but Nature has shew
n herself capable of many freakish p
erformances. The expression on his f
ace may easily have arisen from some
 obscure muscular source unrelated t
o anything he saw, while the entries
 in his diary are clearly the result
 of a fantastic imagination aroused 
by certain local superstitions and b
y certain old matters he had uncover
ed. As for the anomalous conditions 
at the deserted church on Federal Hi
ll‚Äîthe shrewd analyst is not slow 
in attributing them to some charlata
nry, conscious or unconscious, with 
at least some of which Blake was sec
retly connected.
For after all, the victim was a writ
er and painter wholly devoted to the
 field of myth, dream, terror, and s
uperstition, and avid in his quest f
or scenes and effects of a bizarre, 
spectral sort. His earlier stay in t
he city‚Äîa visit to a strange old m
an as deeply given to occult and for
bidden lore as he‚Äîhad ended amidst
 death and flame, and it must have b
een some morbid instinct which drew 
him back from his home in Milwaukee.
 He may have known of the old storie
s despite his statements to the cont
rary in the diary, and his death may
 have nipped in the bud some stupend
ous hoax destined to have a literary
 reflection.
Among those, however, who have exami
ned and correlated all this evidence
, there remain several who cling to 
less rational and commonplace theori
es. They are inclined to take much o
f Blake‚Äôs diary at its face value,
 and point significantly to certain 
facts such as the undoubted genuinen
ess of the old church record, the ve
rified existence of the disliked and
 unorthodox Starry Wisdom sect prior
 to 1877, the recorded disappearance
 of an inquisitive reporter named Ed
win M. Lillibridge in 1893, and‚Äîab
ove all‚Äîthe look of monstrous, tra
nsfiguring fear on the face of the y
oung writer when he died. It was one
 of these believers who, moved to fa
natical extremes, threw into the bay
 the curiously angled stone and its 
strangely adorned metal box found in
 the old church steeple‚Äîthe black 
windowless steeple, and not the towe
r where Blake‚Äôs diary said those t
hings originally were. Though widely
 censured both officially and unoffi
cially, this man‚Äîa reputable physi
cian with a taste for odd folklore‚Ä
îaverred that he had rid the earth o
f something too dangerous to rest up
on it.
Between these two schools of opinion
 the reader must judge for himself. 
The papers have given the tangible d
etails from a sceptical angle, leavi
ng for others the drawing of the pic
ture as Robert Blake saw it‚Äîor tho
ught he saw it‚Äîor pretended to see
 it. Now, studying the diary closely
, dispassionately, and at leisure, l
et us summarise the dark chain of ev
ents from the expressed point of vie
w of their chief actor.
Young Blake returned to Providence i
n the winter of 1934‚Äì5, taking the
 upper floor of a venerable dwelling
 in a grassy court off College Stree
t‚Äîon the crest of the great eastwa
rd hill near the Brown University ca
mpus and behind the marble John Hay 
Library. It was a cosy and fascinati
ng place, in a little garden oasis o
f village-like antiquity where huge,
 friendly cats sunned themselves ato
p a convenient shed. The square Geor
gian house had a monitor roof, class
ic doorway with fan carving, small-p
aned windows, and all the other earm
arks of early nineteenth-century wor
kmanship. Inside were six-panelled d
oors, wide floor-boards, a curving c
olonial staircase, white Adam-period
 mantels, and a rear set of rooms th
ree steps below the general level.
Blake‚Äôs study, a large southwest c
hamber, overlooked the front garden 
on one side, while its west windows‚
Äîbefore one of which he had his des
k‚Äîfaced off from the brow of the h
ill and commanded a splendid view of
 the lower town‚Äôs outspread roofs 
and of the mystical sunsets that fla
med behind them. On the far horizon 
were the open countryside‚Äôs purple
 slopes. Against these, some two mil
es away, rose the spectral hump of F
ederal Hill, bristling with huddled 
roofs and steeples whose remote outl
ines wavered mysteriously, taking fa
ntastic forms as the smoke of the ci
ty swirled up and enmeshed them. Bla
ke had a curious sense that he was l
ooking upon some unknown, ethereal w
orld which might or might not vanish
 in dream if ever he tried to seek i
t out and enter it in person.
Having sent home for most of his boo
ks, Blake bought some antique furnit
ure suitable to his quarters and set
tled down to write and paint‚Äîlivin
g alone, and attending to the simple
 housework himself. His studio was i
n a north attic room, where the pane
s of the monitor roof furnished admi
rable lighting. During that first wi
nter he produced five of his best-kn
own short stories‚Äî‚ÄúThe Burrower 
Beneath‚Äù, ‚ÄúThe Stairs in the Cry
pt‚Äù, ‚ÄúShaggai‚Äù, ‚ÄúIn the Vale
 of Pnath‚Äù, and ‚ÄúThe Feaster fro
m the Stars‚Äù‚Äîand painted seven c
anvases; studies of nameless, unhuma
n monsters, and profoundly alien, no
n-terrestrial landscapes.
At sunset he would often sit at his 
desk and gaze dreamily off at the ou
tspread west‚Äîthe dark towers of Me
morial Hall just below, the Georgian
 court-house belfry, the lofty pinna
cles of the downtown section, and th
at shimmering, spire-crowned mound i
n the distance whose unknown streets
 and labyrinthine gables so potently
 provoked his fancy. From his few lo
cal acquaintances he learned that th
e far-off slope was a vast Italian q
uarter, though most of the houses we
re remnants of older Yankee and Iris
h days. Now and then he would train 
his field-glasses on that spectral, 
unreachable world beyond the curling
 smoke; picking out individual roofs
 and chimneys and steeples, and spec
ulating upon the bizarre and curious
 mysteries they might house. Even wi
th optical aid Federal Hill seemed s
omehow alien, half fabulous, and lin
ked to the unreal, intangible marvel
s of Blake‚Äôs own tales and picture
s. The feeling would persist long af
ter the hill had faded into the viol
et, lamp-starred twilight, and the c
ourt-house floodlights and the red I
ndustrial Trust beacon had blazed up
 to make the night grotesque.
Of all the distant objects on Federa
l Hill, a certain huge, dark church 
most fascinated Blake. It stood out 
with especial distinctness at certai
n hours of the day, and at sunset th
e great tower and tapering steeple l
oomed blackly against the flaming sk
y. It seemed to rest on especially h
igh ground; for the grimy facade, an
d the obliquely seen north side with
 sloping roof and the tops of great 
pointed windows, rose boldly above t
he tangle of surrounding ridgepoles 
and chimney-pots. Peculiarly grim an
d austere, it appeared to be built o
f stone, stained and weathered with 
the smoke and storms of a century an
d more. The style, so far as the gla
ss could shew, was that earliest exp
erimental form of Gothic revival whi
ch preceded the stately Upjohn perio
d and held over some of the outlines
 and proportions of the Georgian age
. Perhaps it was reared around 1810 
or 1815.
As months passed, Blake watched the 
far-off, forbidding structure with a
n oddly mounting interest. Since the
 vast windows were never lighted, he
 knew that it must be vacant. The lo
nger he watched, the more his imagin
ation worked, till at length he bega
n to fancy curious things. He believ
ed that a vague, singular aura of de
solation hovered over the place, so 
that even the pigeons and swallows s
hunned its smoky eaves. Around other
 towers and belfries his glass would
 reveal great flocks of birds, but h
ere they never rested. At least, tha
t is what he thought and set down in
 his diary. He pointed the place out
 to several friends, but none of the
m had even been on Federal Hill or p
ossessed the faintest notion of what
 the church was or had been.
In the spring a deep restlessness gr
ipped Blake. He had begun his long-p
lanned novel‚Äîbased on a supposed s
urvival of the witch-cult in Maine‚Ä
îbut was strangely unable to make pr
ogress with it. More and more he wou
ld sit at his westward window and ga
ze at the distant hill and the black
, frowning steeple shunned by the bi
rds. When the delicate leaves came o
ut on the garden boughs the world wa
s filled with a new beauty, but Blak
e‚Äôs restlessness was merely increa
sed. It was then that he first thoug
ht of crossing the city and climbing
 bodily up that fabulous slope into 
the smoke-wreathed world of dream.
Late in April, just before the aeon-
shadowed Walpurgis time, Blake made 
his first trip into the unknown. Plo
dding through the endless downtown s
treets and the bleak, decayed square
s beyond, he came finally upon the a
scending avenue of century-worn step
s, sagging Doric porches, and blear-
paned cupolas which he felt must lea
d up to the long-known, unreachable 
world beyond the mists. There were d
ingy blue-and-white street signs whi
ch meant nothing to him, and present
ly he noted the strange, dark faces 
of the drifting crowds, and the fore
ign signs over curious shops in brow
n, decade-weathered buildings. Nowhe
re could he find any of the objects 
he had seen from afar; so that once 
more he half fancied that the Federa
l Hill of that distant view was a dr
eam-world never to be trod by living
 human feet.
Now and then a battered church facad
e or crumbling spire came in sight, 
but never the blackened pile that he
 sought. When he asked a shopkeeper 
about a great stone church the man s
miled and shook his head, though he 
spoke English freely. As Blake climb
ed higher, the region seemed strange
r and stranger, with bewildering maz
es of brooding brown alleys leading 
eternally off to the south. He cross
ed two or three broad avenues, and o
nce thought he glimpsed a familiar t
ower. Again he asked a merchant abou
t the massive church of stone, and t
his time he could have sworn that th
e plea of ignorance was feigned. The
 dark man‚Äôs face had a look of fea
r which he tried to hide, and Blake 
saw him make a curious sign with his
 right hand.
Then suddenly a black spire stood ou
t against the cloudy sky on his left
, above the tiers of brown roofs lin
ing the tangled southerly alleys. Bl
ake knew at once what it was, and pl
unged toward it through the squalid,
 unpaved lanes that climbed from the
 avenue. Twice he lost his way, but 
he somehow dared not ask any of the 
patriarchs or housewives who sat on 
their doorsteps, or any of the child
ren who shouted and played in the mu
d of the shadowy lanes.
At last he saw the tower plain again
st the southwest, and a huge stone b
ulk rose darkly at the end of an all
ey. Presently he stood in a windswep
t open square, quaintly cobblestoned
, with a high bank wall on the farth
er side. This was the end of his que
st; for upon the wide, iron-railed, 
weed-grown plateau which the wall su
pported‚Äîa separate, lesser world r
aised fully six feet above the surro
unding streets‚Äîthere stood a grim,
 titan bulk whose identity, despite 
Blake‚Äôs new perspective, was beyon
d dispute.
The vacant church was in a state of 
great decrepitude. Some of the high 
stone buttresses had fallen, and sev
eral delicate finials lay half lost 
among the brown, neglected weeds and
 grasses. The sooty Gothic windows w
ere largely unbroken, though many of
 the stone mullions were missing. Bl
ake wondered how the obscurely paint
ed panes could have survived so well
, in view of the known habits of sma
ll boys the world over. The massive 
doors were intact and tightly closed
. Around the top of the bank wall, f
ully enclosing the grounds, was a ru
sty iron fence whose gate‚Äîat the h
ead of a flight of steps from the sq
uare‚Äîwas visibly padlocked. The pa
th from the gate to the building was
 completely overgrown. Desolation an
d decay hung like a pall above the p
lace, and in the birdless eaves and 
black, ivyless walls Blake felt a to
uch of the dimly sinister beyond his
 power to define.
There were very few people in the sq
uare, but Blake saw a policeman at t
he northerly end and approached him 
with questions about the church. He 
was a great wholesome Irishman, and 
it seemed odd that he would do littl
e more than make the sign of the cro
ss and mutter that people never spok
e of that building. When Blake press
ed him he said very hurriedly that t
he Italian priests warned everybody 
against it, vowing that a monstrous 
evil had once dwelt there and left i
ts mark. He himself had heard dark w
hispers of it from his father, who r
ecalled certain sounds and rumours f
rom his boyhood.
There had been a bad sect there in t
he ould days‚Äîan outlaw sect that c
alled up awful things from some unkn
own gulf of night. It had taken a go
od priest to exorcise what had come,
 though there did be those who said 
that merely the light could do it. I
f Father O‚ÄôMalley were alive there
 would be many the thing he could te
ll. But now there was nothing to do 
but let it alone. It hurt nobody now
, and those that owned it were dead 
or far away. They had run away like 
rats after the threatening talk in ‚
Äô77, when people began to mind the 
way folks vanished now and then in t
he neighbourhood. Some day the city 
would step in and take the property 
for lack of heirs, but little good w
ould come of anybody‚Äôs touching it
. Better it be left alone for the ye
ars to topple, lest things be stirre
d that ought to rest forever in thei
r black abyss.
After the policeman had gone Blake s
tood staring at the sullen steepled 
pile. It excited him to find that th
e structure seemed as sinister to ot
hers as to him, and he wondered what
 grain of truth might lie behind the
 old tales the bluecoat had repeated
. Probably they were mere legends ev
oked by the evil look of the place, 
but even so, they were like a strang
e coming to life of one of his own s
tories.
The afternoon sun came out from behi
nd dispersing clouds, but seemed una
ble to light up the stained, sooty w
alls of the old temple that towered 
on its high plateau. It was odd that
 the green of spring had not touched
 the brown, withered growths in the 
raised, iron-fenced yard. Blake foun
d himself edging nearer the raised a
rea and examining the bank wall and 
rusted fence for possible avenues of
 ingress. There was a terrible lure 
about the blackened fane which was n
ot to be resisted. The fence had no 
opening near the steps, but around o
n the north side were some missing b
ars. He could go up the steps and wa
lk around on the narrow coping outsi
de the fence till he came to the gap
. If the people feared the place so 
wildly, he would encounter no interf
erence.
He was on the embankment and almost 
inside the fence before anyone notic
ed him. Then, looking down, he saw t
he few people in the square edging a
way and making the same sign with th
eir right hands that the shopkeeper 
in the avenue had made. Several wind
ows were slammed down, and a fat wom
an darted into the street and pulled
 some small children inside a ricket
y, unpainted house. The gap in the f
ence was very easy to pass through, 
and before long Blake found himself 
wading amidst the rotting, tangled g
rowths of the deserted yard. Here an
d there the worn stump of a headston
e told him that there had once been 
burials in this field; but that, he 
saw, must have been very long ago. T
he sheer bulk of the church was oppr
essive now that he was close to it, 
but he conquered his mood and approa
ched to try the three great doors in
 the facade. All were securely locke
d, so he began a circuit of the Cycl
opean building in quest of some mino
r and more penetrable opening. Even 
then he could not be sure that he wi
shed to enter that haunt of desertio
n and shadow, yet the pull of its st
rangeness dragged him on automatical
ly.
A yawning and unprotected cellar win
dow in the rear furnished the needed
 aperture. Peering in, Blake saw a s
ubterrene gulf of cobwebs and dust f
aintly litten by the western sun‚Äôs
 filtered rays. Debris, old barrels,
 and ruined boxes and furniture of n
umerous sorts met his eye, though ov
er everything lay a shroud of dust w
hich softened all sharp outlines. Th
e rusted remains of a hot-air furnac
e shewed that the building had been 
used and kept in shape as late as mi
d-Victorian times.
Acting almost without conscious init
iative, Blake crawled through the wi
ndow and let himself down to the dus
t-carpeted and debris-strown concret
e floor. The vaulted cellar was a va
st one, without partitions; and in a
 corner far to the right, amid dense
 shadows, he saw a black archway evi
dently leading upstairs. He felt a p
eculiar sense of oppression at being
 actually within the great spectral 
building, but kept it in check as he
 cautiously scouted about‚Äîfinding 
a still-intact barrel amid the dust,
 and rolling it over to the open win
dow to provide for his exit. Then, b
racing himself, he crossed the wide,
 cobweb-festooned space toward the a
rch. Half choked with the omnipresen
t dust, and covered with ghostly gos
samer fibres, he reached and began t
o climb the worn stone steps which r
ose into the darkness. He had no lig
ht, but groped carefully with his ha
nds. After a sharp turn he felt a cl
osed door ahead, and a little fumbli
ng revealed its ancient latch. It op
ened inward, and beyond it he saw a 
dimly illumined corridor lined with 
worm-eaten panelling.
Once on the ground floor, Blake bega
n exploring in a rapid fashion. All 
the inner doors were unlocked, so th
at he freely passed from room to roo
m. The colossal nave was an almost e
ldritch place with its drifts and mo
untains of dust over box pews, altar
, hourglass pulpit, and sounding-boa
rd, and its titanic ropes of cobweb 
stretching among the pointed arches 
of the gallery and entwining the clu
stered Gothic columns. Over all this
 hushed desolation played a hideous 
leaden light as the declining aftern
oon sun sent its rays through the st
range, half-blackened panes of the g
reat apsidal windows.
The paintings on those windows were 
so obscured by soot that Blake could
 scarcely decipher what they had rep
resented, but from the little he cou
ld make out he did not like them. Th
e designs were largely conventional,
 and his knowledge of obscure symbol
ism told him much concerning some of
 the ancient patterns. The few saint
s depicted bore expressions distinct
ly open to criticism, while one of t
he windows seemed to shew merely a d
ark space with spirals of curious lu
minosity scattered about in it. Turn
ing away from the windows, Blake not
iced that the cobwebbed cross above 
the altar was not of the ordinary ki
nd, but resembled the primordial ank
h or crux ansata of shadowy Egypt.
In a rear vestry room beside the aps
e Blake found a rotting desk and cei
ling-high shelves of mildewed, disin
tegrating books. Here for the first 
time he received a positive shock of
 objective horror, for the titles of
 those books told him much. They wer
e the black, forbidden things which 
most sane people have never even hea
rd of, or have heard of only in furt
ive, timorous whispers; the banned a
nd dreaded repositories of equivocal
 secrets and immemorial formulae whi
ch have trickled down the stream of 
time from the days of man‚Äôs youth,
 and the dim, fabulous days before m
an was. He had himself read many of 
them‚Äîa Latin version of the abhorr
ed Necronomicon, the sinister Liber 
Ivonis, the infamous Cultes des Goul
es of Comte d‚ÄôErlette, the Unaussp
rechlichen Kulten of von Junzt, and 
old Ludvig Prinn‚Äôs hellish De Verm
is Mysteriis. But there were others 
he had known merely by reputation or
 not at all‚Äîthe Pnakotic Manuscrip
ts, the Book of Dzyan, and a crumbli
ng volume in wholly unidentifiable c
haracters yet with certain symbols a
nd diagrams shudderingly recognisabl
e to the occult student. Clearly, th
e lingering local rumours had not li
ed. This place had once been the sea
t of an evil older than mankind and 
wider than the known universe.
In the ruined desk was a small leath
er-bound record-book filled with ent
ries in some odd cryptographic mediu
m. The manuscript writing consisted 
of the common traditional symbols us
ed today in astronomy and anciently 
in alchemy, astrology, and other dub
ious arts‚Äîthe devices of the sun, 
moon, planets, aspects, and zodiacal
 signs‚Äîhere massed in solid pages 
of text, with divisions and paragrap
hings suggesting that each symbol an
swered to some alphabetical letter.
In the hope of later solving the cry
ptogram, Blake bore off this volume 
in his coat pocket. Many of the grea
t tomes on the shelves fascinated hi
m unutterably, and he felt tempted t
o borrow them at some later time. He
 wondered how they could have remain
ed undisturbed so long. Was he the f
irst to conquer the clutching, perva
sive fear which had for nearly sixty
 years protected this deserted place
 from visitors?
Having now thoroughly explored the g
round floor, Blake ploughed again th
rough the dust of the spectral nave 
to the front vestibule, where he had
 seen a door and staircase presumabl
y leading up to the blackened tower 
and steeple‚Äîobjects so long famili
ar to him at a distance. The ascent 
was a choking experience, for dust l
ay thick, while the spiders had done
 their worst in this constricted pla
ce. The staircase was a spiral with 
high, narrow wooden treads, and now 
and then Blake passed a clouded wind
ow looking dizzily out over the city
. Though he had seen no ropes below,
 he expected to find a bell or peal 
of bells in the tower whose narrow, 
louver-boarded lancet windows his fi
eld-glass had studied so often. Here
 he was doomed to disappointment; fo
r when he attained the top of the st
airs he found the tower chamber vaca
nt of chimes, and clearly devoted to
 vastly different purposes.
The room, about fifteen feet square,
 was faintly lighted by four lancet 
windows, one on each side, which wer
e glazed within their screening of d
ecayed louver-boards. These had been
 further fitted with tight, opaque s
creens, but the latter were now larg
ely rotted away. In the centre of th
e dust-laden floor rose a curiously 
angled stone pillar some four feet i
n height and two in average diameter
, covered on each side with bizarre,
 crudely incised, and wholly unrecog
nisable hieroglyphs. On this pillar 
rested a metal box of peculiarly asy
mmetrical form; its hinged lid throw
n back, and its interior holding wha
t looked beneath the decade-deep dus
t to be an egg-shaped or irregularly
 spherical object some four inches t
hrough. Around the pillar in a rough
 circle were seven high-backed Gothi
c chairs still largely intact, while
 behind them, ranging along the dark
-panelled walls, were seven colossal
 images of crumbling, black-painted 
plaster, resembling more than anythi
ng else the cryptic carven megaliths
 of mysterious Easter Island. In one
 corner of the cobwebbed chamber a l
adder was built into the wall, leadi
ng up to the closed trap-door of the
 windowless steeple above.
As Blake grew accustomed to the feeb
le light he noticed odd bas-reliefs 
on the strange open box of yellowish
 metal. Approaching, he tried to cle
ar the dust away with his hands and 
handkerchief, and saw that the figur
ings were of a monstrous and utterly
 alien kind; depicting entities whic
h, though seemingly alive, resembled
 no known life-form ever evolved on 
this planet. The four-inch seeming s
phere turned out to be a nearly blac
k, red-striated polyhedron with many
 irregular flat surfaces; either a v
ery remarkable crystal of some sort,
 or an artificial object of carved a
nd highly polished mineral matter. I
t did not touch the bottom of the bo
x, but was held suspended by means o
f a metal band around its centre, wi
th seven queerly designed supports e
xtending horizontally to angles of t
he box‚Äôs inner wall near the top. 
This stone, once exposed, exerted up
on Blake an almost alarming fascinat
ion. He could scarcely tear his eyes
 from it, and as he looked at its gl
istening surfaces he almost fancied 
it was transparent, with half-formed
 worlds of wonder within. Into his m
ind floated pictures of alien orbs w
ith great stone towers, and other or
bs with titan mountains and no mark 
of life, and still remoter spaces wh
ere only a stirring in vague blackne
sses told of the presence of conscio
usness and will.
When he did look away, it was to not
ice a somewhat singular mound of dus
t in the far corner near the ladder 
to the steeple. Just why it took his
 attention he could not tell, but so
mething in its contours carried a me
ssage to his unconscious mind. Ploug
hing toward it, and brushing aside t
he hanging cobwebs as he went, he be
gan to discern something grim about 
it. Hand and handkerchief soon revea
led the truth, and Blake gasped with
 a baffling mixture of emotions. It 
was a human skeleton, and it must ha
ve been there for a very long time. 
The clothing was in shreds, but some
 buttons and fragments of cloth besp
oke a man‚Äôs grey suit. There were 
other bits of evidence‚Äîshoes, meta
l clasps, huge buttons for round cuf
fs, a stickpin of bygone pattern, a 
reporter‚Äôs badge with the name of 
the old Providence Telegram, and a c
rumbling leather pocketbook. Blake e
xamined the latter with care, findin
g within it several bills of antiqua
ted issue, a celluloid advertising c
alendar for 1893, some cards with th
e name ‚ÄúEdwin M. Lillibridge‚Äù, a
nd a paper covered with pencilled me
moranda.
This paper held much of a puzzling n
ature, and Blake read it carefully a
t the dim westward window. Its disjo
inted text included such phrases as 
the following:
‚ÄúProf. Enoch Bowen home from Egypt
 May 1844‚Äîbuys old Free-Will Churc
h in July‚Äîhis archaeological work 
& studies in occult well known.‚Äù
‚ÄúDr. Drowne of 4th Baptist warns a
gainst Starry Wisdom in sermon Dec. 
29, 1844.‚Äù
‚ÄúCongregation 97 by end of ‚Äô45.‚
Äù
‚Äú1846‚Äî3 disappearances‚Äîfirst m
ention of Shining Trapezohedron.‚Äù
‚Äú7 disappearances 1848‚Äîstories o
f blood sacrifice begin.‚Äù
‚ÄúInvestigation 1853 comes to nothi
ng‚Äîstories of sounds.‚Äù
‚ÄúFr. O‚ÄôMalley tells of devil-wor
ship with box found in great Egyptia
n ruins‚Äîsays they call up somethin
g that can‚Äôt exist in light. Flees
 a little light, and banished by str
ong light. Then has to be summoned a
gain. Probably got this from deathbe
d confession of Francis X. Feeney, w
ho had joined Starry Wisdom in ‚Äô49
. These people say the Shining Trape
zohedron shews them heaven & other w
orlds, & that the Haunter of the Dar
k tells them secrets in some way.‚Äù
‚ÄúStory of Orrin B. Eddy 1857. They
 call it up by gazing at the crystal
, & have a secret language of their 
own.‚Äù
‚Äú200 or more in cong. 1863, exclus
ive of men at front.‚Äù
‚ÄúIrish boys mob church in 1869 aft
er Patrick Regan‚Äôs disappearance.‚
Äù
‚ÄúVeiled article in J. March 14, ‚Ä
ô72, but people don‚Äôt talk about i
t.‚Äù
‚Äú6 disappearances 1876‚Äîsecret co
mmittee calls on Mayor Doyle.‚Äù
‚ÄúAction promised Feb. 1877‚Äîchurc
h closes in April.‚Äù
‚ÄúGang‚ÄîFederal Hill Boys‚Äîthreat
en Dr. ‚Äî‚Äî and vestrymen in May.‚
Äù
‚Äú181 persons leave city before end
 of ‚Äô77‚Äîmention no names.‚Äù
‚ÄúGhost stories begin around 1880‚Ä
îtry to ascertain truth of report th
at no human being has entered church
 since 1877.‚Äù
‚ÄúAsk Lanigan for photograph of pla
ce taken 1851.‚Äù . . .
Restoring the paper to the pocketboo
k and placing the latter in his coat
, Blake turned to look down at the s
keleton in the dust. The implication
s of the notes were clear, and there
 could be no doubt but that this man
 had come to the deserted edifice fo
rty-two years before in quest of a n
ewspaper sensation which no one else
 had been bold enough to attempt. Pe
rhaps no one else had known of his p
lan‚Äîwho could tell? But he had nev
er returned to his paper. Had some b
ravely suppressed fear risen to over
come him and bring on sudden heart-f
ailure? Blake stooped over the gleam
ing bones and noted their peculiar s
tate. Some of them were badly scatte
red, and a few seemed oddly dissolve
d at the ends. Others were strangely
 yellowed, with vague suggestions of
 charring. This charring extended to
 some of the fragments of clothing. 
The skull was in a very peculiar sta
te‚Äîstained yellow, and with a char
red aperture in the top as if some p
owerful acid had eaten through the s
olid bone. What had happened to the 
skeleton during its four decades of 
silent entombment here Blake could n
ot imagine.
Before he realised it, he was lookin
g at the stone again, and letting it
s curious influence call up a nebulo
us pageantry in his mind. He saw pro
cessions of robed, hooded figures wh
ose outlines were not human, and loo
ked on endless leagues of desert lin
ed with carved, sky-reaching monolit
hs. He saw towers and walls in night
ed depths under the sea, and vortice
s of space where wisps of black mist
 floated before thin shimmerings of 
cold purple haze. And beyond all els
e he glimpsed an infinite gulf of da
rkness, where solid and semi-solid f
orms were known only by their windy 
stirrings, and cloudy patterns of fo
rce seemed to superimpose order on c
haos and hold forth a key to all the
 paradoxes and arcana of the worlds 
we know.
Then all at once the spell was broke
n by an access of gnawing, indetermi
nate panic fear. Blake choked and tu
rned away from the stone, conscious 
of some formless alien presence clos
e to him and watching him with horri
ble intentness. He felt entangled wi
th something‚Äîsomething which was n
ot in the stone, but which had looke
d through it at him‚Äîsomething whic
h would ceaselessly follow him with 
a cognition that was not physical si
ght. Plainly, the place was getting 
on his nerves‚Äîas well it might in 
view of his gruesome find. The light
 was waning, too, and since he had n
o illuminant with him he knew he wou
ld have to be leaving soon.
It was then, in the gathering twilig
ht, that he thought he saw a faint t
race of luminosity in the crazily an
gled stone. He had tried to look awa
y from it, but some obscure compulsi
on drew his eyes back. Was there a s
ubtle phosphorescence of radio-activ
ity about the thing? What was it tha
t the dead man‚Äôs notes had said co
ncerning a Shining Trapezohedron? Wh
at, anyway, was this abandoned lair 
of cosmic evil? What had been done h
ere, and what might still be lurking
 in the bird-shunned shadows? It see
med now as if an elusive touch of fo
etor had arisen somewhere close by, 
though its source was not apparent. 
Blake seized the cover of the long-o
pen box and snapped it down. It move
d easily on its alien hinges, and cl
osed completely over the unmistakabl
y glowing stone.
At the sharp click of that closing a
 soft stirring sound seemed to come 
from the steeple‚Äôs eternal blackne
ss overhead, beyond the trap-door. R
ats, without question‚Äîthe only liv
ing things to reveal their presence 
in this accursed pile since he had e
ntered it. And yet that stirring in 
the steeple frightened him horribly,
 so that he plunged almost wildly do
wn the spiral stairs, across the gho
ulish nave, into the vaulted basemen
t, out amidst the gathering dusk of 
the deserted square, and down throug
h the teeming, fear-haunted alleys a
nd avenues of Federal Hill toward th
e sane central streets and the home-
like brick sidewalks of the college 
district.
During the days which followed, Blak
e told no one of his expedition. Ins
tead, he read much in certain books,
 examined long years of newspaper fi
les downtown, and worked feverishly 
at the cryptogram in that leather vo
lume from the cobwebbed vestry room.
 The cipher, he soon saw, was no sim
ple one; and after a long period of 
endeavour he felt sure that its lang
uage could not be English, Latin, Gr
eek, French, Spanish, Italian, or Ge
rman. Evidently he would have to dra
w upon the deepest wells of his stra
nge erudition.
Every evening the old impulse to gaz
e westward returned, and he saw the 
black steeple as of yore amongst the
 bristling roofs of a distant and ha
lf-fabulous world. But now it held a
 fresh note of terror for him. He kn
ew the heritage of evil lore it mask
ed, and with the knowledge his visio
n ran riot in queer new ways. The bi
rds of spring were returning, and as
 he watched their sunset flights he 
fancied they avoided the gaunt, lone
 spire as never before. When a flock
 of them approached it, he thought, 
they would wheel and scatter in pani
c confusion‚Äîand he could guess at 
the wild twitterings which failed to
 reach him across the intervening mi
les.
It was in June that Blake‚Äôs diary 
told of his victory over the cryptog
ram. The text was, he found, in the 
dark Aklo language used by certain c
ults of evil antiquity, and known to
 him in a halting way through previo
us researches. The diary is strangel
y reticent about what Blake decipher
ed, but he was patently awed and dis
concerted by his results. There are 
references to a Haunter of the Dark 
awaked by gazing into the Shining Tr
apezohedron, and insane conjectures 
about the black gulfs of chaos from 
which it was called. The being is sp
oken of as holding all knowledge, an
d demanding monstrous sacrifices. So
me of Blake‚Äôs entries shew fear le
st the thing, which he seemed to reg
ard as summoned, stalk abroad; thoug
h he adds that the street-lights for
m a bulwark which cannot be crossed.
Of the Shining Trapezohedron he spea
ks often, calling it a window on all
 time and space, and tracing its his
tory from the days it was fashioned 
on dark Yuggoth, before ever the Old
 Ones brought it to earth. It was tr
easured and placed in its curious bo
x by the crinoid things of Antarctic
a, salvaged from their ruins by the 
serpent-men of Valusia, and peered a
t aeons later in Lemuria by the firs
t human beings. It crossed strange l
ands and stranger seas, and sank wit
h Atlantis before a Minoan fisher me
shed it in his net and sold it to sw
arthy merchants from nighted Khem. T
he Pharaoh Nephren-Ka built around i
t a temple with a windowless crypt, 
and did that which caused his name t
o be stricken from all monuments and
 records. Then it slept in the ruins
 of that evil fane which the priests
 and the new Pharaoh destroyed, till
 the delver‚Äôs spade once more brou
ght it forth to curse mankind.
Early in July the newspapers oddly s
upplement Blake‚Äôs entries, though 
in so brief and casual a way that on
ly the diary has called general atte
ntion to their contribution. It appe
ars that a new fear had been growing
 on Federal Hill since a stranger ha
d entered the dreaded church. The It
alians whispered of unaccustomed sti
rrings and bumpings and scrapings in
 the dark windowless steeple, and ca
lled on their priests to banish an e
ntity which haunted their dreams. So
mething, they said, was constantly w
atching at a door to see if it were 
dark enough to venture forth. Press 
items mentioned the long-standing lo
cal superstitions, but failed to she
d much light on the earlier backgrou
nd of the horror. It was obvious tha
t the young reporters of today are n
o antiquarians. In writing of these 
things in his diary, Blake expresses
 a curious kind of remorse, and talk
s of the duty of burying the Shining
 Trapezohedron and of banishing what
 he had evoked by letting daylight i
nto the hideous jutting spire. At th
e same time, however, he displays th
e dangerous extent of his fascinatio
n, and admits a morbid longing‚Äîper
vading even his dreams‚Äîto visit th
e accursed tower and gaze again into
 the cosmic secrets of the glowing s
tone.
Then something in the Journal on the
 morning of July 17 threw the diaris
t into a veritable fever of horror. 
It was only a variant of the other h
alf-humorous items about the Federal
 Hill restlessness, but to Blake it 
was somehow very terrible indeed. In
 the night a thunderstorm had put th
e city‚Äôs lighting-system out of co
mmission for a full hour, and in tha
t black interval the Italians had ne
arly gone mad with fright. Those liv
ing near the dreaded church had swor
n that the thing in the steeple had 
taken advantage of the street-lamps‚
Äô absence and gone down into the bo
dy of the church, flopping and bumpi
ng around in a viscous, altogether d
readful way. Toward the last it had 
bumped up to the tower, where there 
were sounds of the shattering of gla
ss. It could go wherever the darknes
s reached, but light would always se
nd it fleeing.
When the current blazed on again the
re had been a shocking commotion in 
the tower, for even the feeble light
 trickling through the grime-blacken
ed, louver-boarded windows was too m
uch for the thing. It had bumped and
 slithered up into its tenebrous ste
eple just in time‚Äîfor a long dose 
of light would have sent it back int
o the abyss whence the crazy strange
r had called it. During the dark hou
r praying crowds had clustered round
 the church in the rain with lighted
 candles and lamps somehow shielded 
with folded paper and umbrellas‚Äîa 
guard of light to save the city from
 the nightmare that stalks in darkne
ss. Once, those nearest the church d
eclared, the outer door had rattled 
hideously.
But even this was not the worst. Tha
t evening in the Bulletin Blake read
 of what the reporters had found. Ar
oused at last to the whimsical news 
value of the scare, a pair of them h
ad defied the frantic crowds of Ital
ians and crawled into the church thr
ough the cellar window after trying 
the doors in vain. They found the du
st of the vestibule and of the spect
ral nave ploughed up in a singular w
ay, with bits of rotted cushions and
 satin pew-linings scattered curious
ly around. There was a bad odour eve
rywhere, and here and there were bit
s of yellow stain and patches of wha
t looked like charring. Opening the 
door to the tower, and pausing a mom
ent at the suspicion of a scraping s
ound above, they found the narrow sp
iral stairs wiped roughly clean.
In the tower itself a similarly half
-swept condition existed. They spoke
 of the heptagonal stone pillar, the
 overturned Gothic chairs, and the b
izarre plaster images; though strang
ely enough the metal box and the old
 mutilated skeleton were not mention
ed. What disturbed Blake the most‚Äî
except for the hints of stains and c
harring and bad odours‚Äîwas the fin
al detail that explained the crashin
g glass. Every one of the tower‚Äôs 
lancet windows was broken, and two o
f them had been darkened in a crude 
and hurried way by the stuffing of s
atin pew-linings and cushion-horseha
ir into the spaces between the slant
ing exterior louver-boards. More sat
in fragments and bunches of horsehai
r lay scattered around the newly swe
pt floor, as if someone had been int
errupted in the act of restoring the
 tower to the absolute blackness of 
its tightly curtained days.
Yellowish stains and charred patches
 were found on the ladder to the win
dowless spire, but when a reporter c
limbed up, opened the horizontally s
liding trap-door, and shot a feeble 
flashlight beam into the black and s
trangely foetid space, he saw nothin
g but darkness, and an heterogeneous
 litter of shapeless fragments near 
the aperture. The verdict, of course
, was charlatanry. Somebody had play
ed a joke on the superstitious hill-
dwellers, or else some fanatic had s
triven to bolster up their fears for
 their own supposed good. Or perhaps
 some of the younger and more sophis
ticated dwellers had staged an elabo
rate hoax on the outside world. Ther
e was an amusing aftermath when the 
police sent an officer to verify the
 reports. Three men in succession fo
und ways of evading the assignment, 
and the fourth went very reluctantly
 and returned very soon without addi
ng to the account given by the repor
ters.
From this point onward Blake‚Äôs dia
ry shews a mounting tide of insidiou
s horror and nervous apprehension. H
e upbraids himself for not doing som
ething, and speculates wildly on the
 consequences of another electrical 
breakdown. It has been verified that
 on three occasions‚Äîduring thunder
storms‚Äîhe telephoned the electric 
light company in a frantic vein and 
asked that desperate precautions aga
inst a lapse of power be taken. Now 
and then his entries shew concern ov
er the failure of the reporters to f
ind the metal box and stone, and the
 strangely marred old skeleton, when
 they explored the shadowy tower roo
m. He assumed that these things had 
been removed‚Äîwhither, and by whom 
or what, he could only guess. But hi
s worst fears concerned himself, and
 the kind of unholy rapport he felt 
to exist between his mind and that l
urking horror in the distant steeple
‚Äîthat monstrous thing of night whi
ch his rashness had called out of th
e ultimate black spaces. He seemed t
o feel a constant tugging at his wil
l, and callers of that period rememb
er how he would sit abstractedly at 
his desk and stare out of the west w
indow at that far-off, spire-bristli
ng mound beyond the swirling smoke o
f the city. His entries dwell monoto
nously on certain terrible dreams, a
nd of a strengthening of the unholy 
rapport in his sleep. There is menti
on of a night when he awaked to find
 himself fully dressed, outdoors, an
d headed automatically down College 
Hill toward the west. Again and agai
n he dwells on the fact that the thi
ng in the steeple knows where to fin
d him.
The week following July 30 is recall
ed as the time of Blake‚Äôs partial 
breakdown. He did not dress, and ord
ered all his food by telephone. Visi
tors remarked the cords he kept near
 his bed, and he said that sleep-wal
king had forced him to bind his ankl
es every night with knots which woul
d probably hold or else waken him wi
th the labour of untying.
In his diary he told of the hideous 
experience which had brought the col
lapse. After retiring on the night o
f the 30th he had suddenly found him
self groping about in an almost blac
k space. All he could see were short
, faint, horizontal streaks of bluis
h light, but he could smell an overp
owering foetor and hear a curious ju
mble of soft, furtive sounds above h
im. Whenever he moved he stumbled ov
er something, and at each noise ther
e would come a sort of answering sou
nd from above‚Äîa vague stirring, mi
xed with the cautious sliding of woo
d on wood.
Once his groping hands encountered a
 pillar of stone with a vacant top, 
whilst later he found himself clutch
ing the rungs of a ladder built into
 the wall, and fumbling his uncertai
n way upward toward some region of i
ntenser stench where a hot, searing 
blast beat down against him. Before 
his eyes a kaleidoscopic range of ph
antasmal images played, all of them 
dissolving at intervals into the pic
ture of a vast, unplumbed abyss of n
ight wherein whirled suns and worlds
 of an even profounder blackness. He
 thought of the ancient legends of U
ltimate Chaos, at whose centre spraw
ls the blind idiot god Azathoth, Lor
d of All Things, encircled by his fl
opping horde of mindless and amorpho
us dancers, and lulled by the thin m
onotonous piping of a daemoniac flut
e held in nameless paws.
Then a sharp report from the outer w
orld broke through his stupor and ro
used him to the unutterable horror o
f his position. What it was, he neve
r knew‚Äîperhaps it was some belated
 peal from the fireworks heard all s
ummer on Federal Hill as the dweller
s hail their various patron saints, 
or the saints of their native villag
es in Italy. In any event he shrieke
d aloud, dropped frantically from th
e ladder, and stumbled blindly acros
s the obstructed floor of the almost
 lightless chamber that encompassed 
him.
He knew instantly where he was, and 
plunged recklessly down the narrow s
piral staircase, tripping and bruisi
ng himself at every turn. There was 
a nightmare flight through a vast co
bwebbed nave whose ghostly arches re
ached up to realms of leering shadow
, a sightless scramble through a lit
tered basement, a climb to regions o
f air and street-lights outside, and
 a mad racing down a spectral hill o
f gibbering gables, across a grim, s
ilent city of tall black towers, and
 up the steep eastward precipice to 
his own ancient door.
On regaining consciousness in the mo
rning he found himself lying on his 
study floor fully dressed. Dirt and 
cobwebs covered him, and every inch 
of his body seemed sore and bruised.
 When he faced the mirror he saw tha
t his hair was badly scorched, while
 a trace of strange, evil odour seem
ed to cling to his upper outer cloth
ing. It was then that his nerves bro
ke down. Thereafter, lounging exhaus
tedly about in a dressing-gown, he d
id little but stare from his west wi
ndow, shiver at the threat of thunde
r, and make wild entries in his diar
y.
The great storm broke just before mi
dnight on August 8th. Lightning stru
ck repeatedly in all parts of the ci
ty, and two remarkable fireballs wer
e reported. The rain was torrential,
 while a constant fusillade of thund
er brought sleeplessness to thousand
s. Blake was utterly frantic in his 
fear for the lighting system, and tr
ied to telephone the company around 
1 a.m., though by that time service 
had been temporarily cut off in the 
interest of safety. He recorded ever
ything in his diary‚Äîthe large, ner
vous, and often undecipherable hiero
glyphs telling their own story of gr
owing frenzy and despair, and of ent
ries scrawled blindly in the dark.
He had to keep the house dark in ord
er to see out the window, and it app
ears that most of his time was spent
 at his desk, peering anxiously thro
ugh the rain across the glistening m
iles of downtown roofs at the conste
llation of distant lights marking Fe
deral Hill. Now and then he would fu
mblingly make an entry in his diary,
 so that detached phrases such as ‚Ä
úThe lights must not go‚Äù; ‚ÄúIt kn
ows where I am‚Äù; ‚ÄúI must destroy
 it‚Äù; and ‚ÄúIt is calling to me, 
but perhaps it means no injury this 
time‚Äù; are found scattered down tw
o of the pages.
Then the lights went out all over th
e city. It happened at 2:12 a.m. acc
ording to power-house records, but B
lake‚Äôs diary gives no indication o
f the time. The entry is merely, ‚Äú
Lights out‚ÄîGod help me.‚Äù On Fede
ral Hill there were watchers as anxi
ous as he, and rain-soaked knots of 
men paraded the square and alleys ar
ound the evil church with umbrella-s
haded candles, electric flashlights,
 oil lanterns, crucifixes, and obscu
re charms of the many sorts common t
o southern Italy. They blessed each 
flash of lightning, and made cryptic
al signs of fear with their right ha
nds when a turn in the storm caused 
the flashes to lessen and finally to
 cease altogether. A rising wind ble
w out most of the candles, so that t
he scene grew threateningly dark. So
meone roused Father Merluzzo of Spir
ito Santo Church, and he hastened to
 the dismal square to pronounce what
ever helpful syllables he could. Of 
the restless and curious sounds in t
he blackened tower, there could be n
o doubt whatever.
For what happened at 2:35 we have th
e testimony of the priest, a young, 
intelligent, and well-educated perso
n; of Patrolman William J. Monahan o
f the Central Station, an officer of
 the highest reliability who had pau
sed at that part of his beat to insp
ect the crowd; and of most of the se
venty-eight men who had gathered aro
und the church‚Äôs high bank wall‚Äî
especially those in the square where
 the eastward facade was visible. Of
 course there was nothing which can 
be proved as being outside the order
 of Nature. The possible causes of s
uch an event are many. No one can sp
eak with certainty of the obscure ch
emical processes arising in a vast, 
ancient, ill-aired, and long-deserte
d building of heterogeneous contents
. Mephitic vapours‚Äîspontaneous com
bustion‚Äîpressure of gases born of 
long decay‚Äîany one of numberless p
henomena might be responsible. And t
hen, of course, the factor of consci
ous charlatanry can by no means be e
xcluded. The thing was really quite 
simple in itself, and covered less t
han three minutes of actual time. Fa
ther Merluzzo, always a precise man,
 looked at his watch repeatedly.
It started with a definite swelling 
of the dull fumbling sounds inside t
he black tower. There had for some t
ime been a vague exhalation of stran
ge, evil odours from the church, and
 this had now become emphatic and of
fensive. Then at last there was a so
und of splintering wood, and a large
, heavy object crashed down in the y
ard beneath the frowning easterly fa
cade. The tower was invisible now th
at the candles would not burn, but a
s the object neared the ground the p
eople knew that it was the smoke-gri
med louver-boarding of that tower‚Äô
s east window.
Immediately afterward an utterly unb
earable foetor welled forth from the
 unseen heights, choking and sickeni
ng the trembling watchers, and almos
t prostrating those in the square. A
t the same time the air trembled wit
h a vibration as of flapping wings, 
and a sudden east-blowing wind more 
violent than any previous blast snat
ched off the hats and wrenched the d
ripping umbrellas of the crowd. Noth
ing definite could be seen in the ca
ndleless night, though some upward-l
ooking spectators thought they glimp
sed a great spreading blur of denser
 blackness against the inky sky‚Äîso
mething like a formless cloud of smo
ke that shot with meteor-like speed 
toward the east.
That was all. The watchers were half
 numbed with fright, awe, and discom
fort, and scarcely knew what to do, 
or whether to do anything at all. No
t knowing what had happened, they di
d not relax their vigil; and a momen
t later they sent up a prayer as a s
harp flash of belated lightning, fol
lowed by an earsplitting crash of so
und, rent the flooded heavens. Half 
an hour later the rain stopped, and 
in fifteen minutes more the street-l
ights sprang on again, sending the w
eary, bedraggled watchers relievedly
 back to their homes.
The next day‚Äôs papers gave these m
atters minor mention in connexion wi
th the general storm reports. It see
ms that the great lightning flash an
d deafening explosion which followed
 the Federal Hill occurrence were ev
en more tremendous farther east, whe
re a burst of the singular foetor wa
s likewise noticed. The phenomenon w
as most marked over College Hill, wh
ere the crash awaked all the sleepin
g inhabitants and led to a bewildere
d round of speculations. Of those wh
o were already awake only a few saw 
the anomalous blaze of light near th
e top of the hill, or noticed the in
explicable upward rush of air which 
almost stripped the leaves from the 
trees and blasted the plants in the 
gardens. It was agreed that the lone
, sudden lightning-bolt must have st
ruck somewhere in this neighbourhood
, though no trace of its striking co
uld afterward be found. A youth in t
he Tau Omega fraternity house though
t he saw a grotesque and hideous mas
s of smoke in the air just as the pr
eliminary flash burst, but his obser
vation has not been verified. All of
 the few observers, however, agree a
s to the violent gust from the west 
and the flood of intolerable stench 
which preceded the belated stroke; w
hilst evidence concerning the moment
ary burned odour after the stroke is
 equally general.
These points were discussed very car
efully because of their probable con
nexion with the death of Robert Blak
e. Students in the Psi Delta house, 
whose upper rear windows looked into
 Blake‚Äôs study, noticed the blurre
d white face at the westward window 
on the morning of the 9th, and wonde
red what was wrong with the expressi
on. When they saw the same face in t
he same position that evening, they 
felt worried, and watched for the li
ghts to come up in his apartment. La
ter they rang the bell of the darken
ed flat, and finally had a policeman
 force the door.
The rigid body sat bolt upright at t
he desk by the window, and when the 
intruders saw the glassy, bulging ey
es, and the marks of stark, convulsi
ve fright on the twisted features, t
hey turned away in sickened dismay. 
Shortly afterward the coroner‚Äôs ph
ysician made an examination, and des
pite the unbroken window reported el
ectrical shock, or nervous tension i
nduced by electrical discharge, as t
he cause of death. The hideous expre
ssion he ignored altogether, deeming
 it a not improbable result of the p
rofound shock as experienced by a pe
rson of such abnormal imagination an
d unbalanced emotions. He deduced th
ese latter qualities from the books,
 paintings, and manuscripts found in
 the apartment, and from the blindly
 scrawled entries in the diary on th
e desk. Blake had prolonged his fren
zied jottings to the last, and the b
roken-pointed pencil was found clutc
hed in his spasmodically contracted 
right hand.
The entries after the failure of the
 lights were highly disjointed, and 
legible only in part. From them cert
ain investigators have drawn conclus
ions differing greatly from the mate
rialistic official verdict, but such
 speculations have little chance for
 belief among the conservative. The 
case of these imaginative theorists 
has not been helped by the action of
 superstitious Dr. Dexter, who threw
 the curious box and angled stone‚Äî
an object certainly self-luminous as
 seen in the black windowless steepl
e where it was found‚Äîinto the deep
est channel of Narragansett Bay. Exc
essive imagination and neurotic unba
lance on Blake‚Äôs part, aggravated 
by knowledge of the evil bygone cult
 whose startling traces he had uncov
ered, form the dominant interpretati
on given those final frenzied jottin
gs. These are the entries‚Äîor all t
hat can be made of them.
‚ÄúLights still out‚Äîmust be five m
inutes now. Everything depends on li
ghtning. Yaddith grant it will keep 
up . . . Some influence seems beatin
g through it. . . . Rain and thunder
 and wind deafen. . . . The thing is
 taking hold of my mind. . . .
‚ÄúTrouble with memory. I see things
 I never knew before. Other worlds a
nd other galaxies . . . Dark . . . T
he lightning seems dark and the dark
ness seems light. . . .
‚ÄúIt cannot be the real hill and ch
urch that I see in the pitch-darknes
s. Must be retinal impression left b
y flashes. Heaven grant the Italians
 are out with their candles if the l
ightning stops
‚ÄúWhat am I afraid of? Is it not an
 avatar of Nyarlathotep, who in anti
que and shadowy Khem even took the f
orm of man? I remember Yuggoth, and 
more distant Shaggai, and the ultima
te void of the black planets. . . .
‚ÄúThe long, winging flight through 
the void . . . cannot cross the univ
erse of light . . . re-created by th
e thoughts caught in the Shining Tra
pezohedron . . . send it through the
 horrible abysses of radiance. . . .
‚ÄúMy name is Blake‚ÄîRobert Harriso
n Blake of 620 East Knapp Street, Mi
lwaukee, Wisconsin. . . . I am on th
is planet. . . .
‚ÄúAzathoth have mercy‚Äîthe lightni
ng no longer flashes‚Äîhorrible‚ÄîI 
can see everything with a monstrous 
sense that is not sight‚Äîlight is d
ark and dark is light . . . those pe
ople on the hill . . . guard . . . c
andles and charms . . . their priest
s. . . .
‚ÄúSense of distance gone‚Äîfar is n
ear and near is far. No light‚Äîno g
lass‚Äîsee that steeple‚Äîthat tower
‚Äîwindow‚Äîcan hear‚ÄîRoderick Ushe
r‚Äîam mad or going mad‚Äîthe thing 
is stirring and fumbling in the towe
r‚ÄîI am it and it is I‚ÄîI want to 
get out . . . must get out and unify
 the forces. . . . It knows where I 
am. . . .
‚ÄúI am Robert Blake, but I see the 
tower in the dark. There is a monstr
ous odour . . . senses transfigured 
. . . boarding at that tower window 
cracking and giving way. . . . I√§ .
 . . ngai . . . ygg. . . .
‚ÄúI see it‚Äîcoming here‚Äîhell-win
d‚Äîtitan blur‚Äîblack wings‚ÄîYog-S
othoth save me‚Äîthe three-lobed bur
ning eye. . . .‚Äù
INSCCOIN Converter 1.0
